In June/July 2017, CB talked to a few people, and suggested the following areas
of opportunity, and their respective needs.

	large company IT

	    Right now Office365 seems to be the sweet way to ensure that critical 
	    data is backed up to the cloud ... and MS has done a smart thing by 
	    combining the app service with managed storage.

	    Many enterprises will not trust their data to a public cloud provider, 
	    but want to keep it in a local object store.  
	    Encryption is an absolute requirement.

	    There are per-desktop/notebook file systems that need backing up, 
	    but backup gateway products are pretty good, and no enterprise is 
	    going to trust us with Tier-1 data any time soon.  Right now backup 
	    products do not support tiering (out and back in), but probably will 
	    by the time we get there.

	Home users

	    They have a significant problem with getting local files backed up 
	    to the cloud, and we could offer significant value there.  The question
	    is how we get ourselves injected into that market.  One suggestion is 
	    that we offer a (free) Synology app that uses the local diskstation 
	    for the KVS and backs up to the cloud.  This gets us testing and 
	    reputation, and we can charge for in-cloud garbage collection (and 
	    perhaps other support/integration services).

	    This might lead to a disruptive open source model that would make 
	    us valuable even if we were not generating significant revenue.

	Storage for VMs

	    EBS is painfully slow and per-VM SSD is very expensive.  Our 
	    ability to offer SSD-like performance in limited SSD could be 
	    a compelling value proposition ... and having all S3 I/O be 
	    local would improve our reliability.

	    We could offer our service as packages (to be installed on the 
	    client VM), as an NFS server VM (to be mounted from a client VM), 
	    or as a VM image with our filesystem stack installed on it.

He has yet to talk to people who might want us as primary storage (because 
of the latency and quick cloud backup).
